Add "Intro to KLT"; edit "Getting Started" (#785)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/intro-klt.md

---
title: Introduction to the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
linktitle: Introduction to the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
description: Understand the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
weight: 05
cascade:
  github_subdir: "docs/content/en/docs"
  path_base_for_github_subdir: "/content/en/docs-dev"
---

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit (KLT) implements observability
for deployments that are implemented with standard GitOps tools
such as ArgoCD, Flux, and Gitlab
and brings application awareness to your Kubernetes cluster.

These standard GitOps deployment tools
do an excellent job at deploying applications
but do not handle all issues
that are required to ensure that your deployment is usable.
The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit "wraps" a standard Kubernetes GitOps deployment
with the capability to automatically handle issues
before and after the actual deployment.

Pre-deployment issues:

* Send appropriate notifications that this deployment is about to happen
* Check that downstream services meet their SLOs
* Verify that your infrastructure is ready

> * Ensure that your infrastructure
> * has the resources necessary for a successful deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that your infrastructure
  has the resources necessary for a successful deployment
```

Post-deployment issues:

* Integrate with tooling beyond the standard Kubernetes probes

> * to automatically test the deployment

Reviewer: I think this would be more consistent with the other things in this list
```suggestion
* Automatically test the deployment
```

this is what KLT adds.

Keptn LTS is a long-term support release
that can deploy applications on platforms other than Kubernetes,
can accomodate complex scoring algorithms for SLO evaluations,
and can implement remediations (self-healing) for problems discovered
on the production site.

In a December 2022 Keptn Community meeting,
we discussed the differences and similarities
between Keptn and the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
to help you decide which best fits your needs.
View the recording:
[Compare Keptn V1 and the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nCbrG_RFos)

## Overviews of Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit

A number of presentations are available to give an overview
of the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit:

* [What is keptn, how it works, and how to get started!](https://www.dynatrace.com/news/blog/what-is-keptn-how-it-works-and-how-to-get-started/)

* [Observability and Orchestration of your Deployment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nCbrG_RFos)

* [Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Demo Tutorial on k3s, with ArgoCD for GitOps, OTel, Prometheus and Grafana](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6J_RzpmXoCc)

* The "IsItObservable Tutorial for KLT" will be released to YouTube soon.

>   You can explore the GitHub repository that accompanies this video
>   at <https://github.com/isItObservable/keptn-lifecycle-Toolkit> in the meantime.

Reviewer: [nitpick]:
```suggestion
  You can explore the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/isItObservable/keptn-lifecycle-Toolkit) that accompanies this video in the meantime.
```

---
title: Introduction to the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
linktitle: Introduction to the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
description: Understand the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
weight: 05
cascade:
  github_subdir: "docs/content/en/docs"
  path_base_for_github_subdir: "/content/en/docs-dev"
---

> The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit (KLT)  makes your deployments observable,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit (KLT) makes your deployments observable,
```

Author: Fixed

brings application-awareness to your Kubernetes cluster,
and helps you reliably deliver your application with:

* Pre-Deployment Tasks: e.g. checking for dependant services,

>   checking if the cluster is ready for the deployment, etc.

Reviewer 2: I think we should suggest also that tasks are for changing things
```suggestion
  setting the cluster to be ready for the deployment, etc.
```

Author: done

* Pre-Deployment Evaluations: e.g. evaluate metrics
  before your application gets deployed (e.g. layout of the cluster)
* Post-Deployment Tasks: e.g. trigger a test,
  trigger a deployment to another cluster, etc.
* Post-Deployment Evaluations: e.g. evaluate the deployment,
  evaluate the test results, etc.

All of these things can be executed on a workload or on an application level,
whereby a Keptn application is a collection of multiple workloads.

> ## Compare KLT and Keptn V1-LTS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Compare Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit and Keptn LTS
```

Author: done

> The Keptn Lifecycle Controller (KLT) is an incubating CNCF project

Reviewer 3: Keptn is an incubating CNCF project and the LT is a subproject of Keptn

Reviewer 2: I agree with @thschue. I think a better wording would be
```suggestion
The Keptn Lifecycle Controller (KLT) is a Keptn subproject
```

Author: done and I learned something.  And I must get that "word list" started!

> whose design reflects lessons we learned while developing Keptn V1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
whose design reflects lessons we learned while developing Keptn LTS.
```

Author: done

KLT recognizes that tools such as Argo and Flux
are very good at deploying applications
so adds pre-deployment and post-deployment evaluations and actions.
For many installations, this provides the functionality they need

> with much less complexity than the Keptn V1 project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with much less complexity than the Keptn LTS project.
```

Author: done

> Keptn V1 is a fully-incubated, LTS release

Reviewer 3: I would remove this section, as every keptn variant has other strengths and IMHO both configurations could get complex

Author: I would like to preserve a mention of Keptn LTS that gives  a nod to the fact that it is currently useful in some cases.   We can leave it to the reader to decide whether they are interested in those cases, of course ;-). See what you think of my rewrite.

that can implement a wider variety of implementations
but also incurs more complexity.

In a December 2022 Keptn Community meeting, 
we discussed the differences and similarities

> between Keptn and the Keptn LifeCycle Toolkit

Author: done

to help you decide which best fits your needs.
View the recording:
[Compare Keptn V1 and the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nCbrG_RFos)

## Overviews of Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit

A number of presentations are available to give an overview
of the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit:

* [Observability and Orchestration of your Deployment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nCbrG_RFos)

* [Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Demo Tutorial on k3s, with ArgoCD for GitOps, OTel, Prometheus and Grafana](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6J_RzpmXoCc)

* The "IsItObservable Tutorial for KLT" will be released to YouTube soon.

>   You can explore the github repository that accompanies this video

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You can explore the GitHub repository that accompanies this video
```

Author: done

brings application-awareness to your Kubernetes cluster,
and helps you reliably deliver your application with:

* Pre-Deployment Tasks: e.g. checking for dependant services,
  setting the cluster to be ready for the deployment, etc.
* Pre-Deployment Evaluations: e.g. evaluate metrics
  before your application gets deployed (e.g. layout of the cluster)
* Post-Deployment Tasks: e.g. trigger a test,
  trigger a deployment to another cluster, etc.
* Post-Deployment Evaluations: e.g. evaluate the deployment,
  evaluate the test results, etc.

All of these things can be executed on a workload or on an application level,
whereby a Keptn application is a collection of multiple workloads.

## Compare Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit and Keptn LTS

The Keptn Lifecycle Controller (KLT) is a Keptn subproject
whose design reflects lessons we learned while developing Keptn LTS.
KLT recognizes that tools such as Argo and Flux
are very good at deploying applications
so adds pre-deployment and post-deployment evaluations and actions.
For many installations, this provides the functionality they need
with much less complexity than the Keptn LTS project.

> Keptn LTS is a fully-incubated, long-term support release

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keptn LTS is a long-term support release
```

Author: done

that can deploy applications on platforms other than Kubernetes

> and currently offers functionality that KLT does not currently have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and offers functionality
```

> such as the abiity to accomodate complex scoring algorithms for SLO evaluations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to accomodate complex scoring algorithms for SLO evaluations
```

Author: Your rewrite doesn't seem syntactically valid.  I'm not sure why you object to this but I tried rewriting that paragraph a little bit.  I'm not crazy about making it sound like these three features are the only differences between Keptn and KLT rather than leaving it open-ended but whatever...  See if this is acceptable.

and the ability to implement remediations (self-healing) for problems discovered
on the production site.

> Keptn LTS can also be more difficult to set up and maintain

Reviewer 3: Would remove this line

Author: done
